Oh
hi guys I'm Laura Vitale and on this
episode of Laura in the kitchen I want
to show you how to make a ridiculously
easy simple and yet delicious fresh
tomato soup now about a year ago I
showed you how to make a tomato soup and
this is just a slightly different
version I still absolutely love that
recipe but I have been making this
recipe so much more now and my husband
has a little garden outside our you know
back yard so he's got tons of tomatoes
growing and I actually showed sort of a
few steps of how when I was making the
soup on my blog on my second channel
which if you don't know I do have a
second channel Laura's topics I'll link
it down below we're going to be starting
we're going to start doing a lot more
vlogs we are doing vlogs now so if you
want to check them out
hop on over there subscribe and give us
some live but a lot of people were like
show us along in the kitchen how you
make that soup it looks amazing so I
thought why not it's really easy
required a handful of ingredients and
it's just delicious but I've got here
are some fresh tomatoes so some just
some plum tomatoes I've got some little
baby heirloom tomato little yellow
tomatoes I've got fresh basil a pinch of
sugar balsamic vinegar pinch of hot
pepper flakes some fresh oregano garlic
and shallots that's it no cream no not
nothing nothing else we said a little
bit of stuff to thin it out after of
course so pepper in olive oil but
anyways it's easy I'm gonna take first
of all you want to pre-heat your oven to
425 I've got a 9 by 13 inch pan here now
I know that this is going to look like
there's a lot of tomatoes and it should
all be you know in one layer now I'm
doing that I'm actually I chose to use a
smaller pan for a reason because as much
as I do want this to caramelize in a
will I want them to give out a lot of
their own juice and I want that to be
some of the liquid that when I blend in
I want that to be some of the liquid
that's there so it just works really
really well I'm just having my Tomatoes
now these I am
because you know our Tomatoes we just
kind of pick a few every single day and
there are some that aren't ripe yet but
I wanted to share this recipe with you
and I went to a farmers market and I
mean look how beautiful these tomatoes
are I come pass them up you can also
make some match you know some roma
tomatoes plum tomato
wait name you name it whatever you've
got it's fresh in season at its best all
I'm doing with my garlic is just fashion
it with my knife getting rid of the skin
and popping it right in there because
it's gonna happen is see because we're
not roasting it all in a single layer
it's not going to develop a lot of color
and burn it's going to kind of bubble in
its own juices stop again I'm going to
caramelize a bit at the top but those
flavors are going to be so sweet and
delicious that I'm putting a lot of
garlic in there because it is going to
be so sweet so when you do go ahead and
puree it it's just there's an absolutely
no overpowering of garlic whatsoever you
of course could leave some out it's
completely up to you I'm adding some
shallots last time I made this you know
in the vlog I even added some green
onion tops because I use the whites for
a different recipe I mean again it's all
going to get pureed anyway so might as
well just going to take the very first
layer off I'm starting my shallots right
in adding my hot pepper flakes and dried
oregano small little pinch of sugar it's
about a teaspoon of sugar and then just
a touch of balsamic vinegar you know the
sugar balsamic vinegar all they're
really doing is helping with a whole
carmelization it's really all it's doing
and bringing out the sweetness and the
tomatoes tons of fresh basil stalks and
all good amount of extra virgin olive
oil because at the end of the day this
is kind of what's going to give you
those delicious juices and what those
tomatoes are going to roast in so you
want to make sure you add a good maybe
quarter cup or so this is going to make
about four to six servings depending on
how big your serving is so about four
tablespoons of olive oil it's completely
enough for four to six
it's hardly anything good now salt and
pepper good amount of salt because
tomatoes are very very sweet bring this
closer to me and just go in with your
hands and mix it all together this is
gonna be amazing
when you put this into the oven and you
let it roast all right
make sure you get that balsamic and that
sugar distribute it really well
oops okay I'm gonna wash my hands pop
this into the oven 425 for about an hour
and a quarter
give it a stir every now and then I'll
show you what they look like when
they're done and I'm gonna show you the
little cheese toastie I'm gonna serve
this with can have soup without grilled
cheese my version anyway my tomatoes
were in the oven for about an hour and
ten minutes and I just want you to look
at what I was saying because we cook
them in a slightly smaller pan you get
all these incredible juices otherwise
the tomatoes would roast which you know
the record is great but you wouldn't get
them to be kind of soft and their juices
to release it's amazing now for me above
mozzarella a piece of bread I'm good to
go
that would be supper all on its own what
I'm gonna do is I'm going to put it in
my blender now if you don't have a
powerful blender I have been thinking
for a long time if I wanted to invest in
a powerful like a good blender and I'm
glad that I did because I use my
Blendtec constantly if we don't have a
powerful blender you're gonna need to
sift massive strain the soup
otherwise the skins of the tomatoes are
going to be left all over now
for me this one I kind of put it on the
you know press the soup setting or
whatever and it's just purees smoother
than I've ever seen it before
now don't need to strain it because
there's nothing to strain so it's
perfect but it's completely up to you
I'm just going to try and get it all in
here without really making a mess
oh good awesome and I'm just going to
turn this on and puree it lid on and off
she goes
boom I love that I don't have to turn it
off either is it on its own now
you can I mean it's it's totally smooth
you concern this as is nice and thick
but what I'm going to do is going to
pour this into my saucepan I'm going to
turn this on
that's super high and I'm just going to
take some vegetable stock now obviously
I don't want to get rid of all that so
what I do is I kind of pour my vegetable
stock in there give it a swirl and then
you can just add as much stock as you'd
like to make it as thick or as thin as
you like I usually add about a cup of
vegetable stock um usually seems to be
perfect for me but again you could serve
as as is you can thin it out if you want
to the world is your pick up my friend
might as well like a little splash in
there now what I'm gonna serve with this
is my little cheese toastie I've got
here is a couple slices of these are
just whole-wheat baguette because that's
just what I buy one of my favorites what
I'm gonna do is I just cut them and on a
diagonal kind of really as large as I
could so I can hit some nice big pieces
I'm gonna turn my little skillet on I've
got an itty-bitty little skillet here
don't turn it on too high maybe but
medium low otherwise it'll burn before
the cheese get it gets a chance to melt
then I'm going to do first of all let's
work on the outside take a little bit of
butter and just kind of smear it on one
side of each one because that's gonna
end up being the outside that's going to
get all nice and brown and then I'm
going to just on a place those and get
all dirty take just that any bitty
amount of basil pesto store-bought
homemade up to you I'll just use a tiny
little bit on each side not too much
because it can basil pesto can be a bit
overpowering and it's got a lot of oil
in there so you don't want your end
result to be super oily then just a
couple sizes this is just a block of
mozzarella I had in the fridge
sandwich just baby together like so so
it's like a fancy grilled cheese and
then just kind of keep it there until it
gets beautifully colored on one side
it's got lovely color and she's all
melted that's it we're gonna do that
that's gonna happen the same time the
soup is getting more and be ready to go
look at that delicious creaminess no
cream whatsoever it's just pure
delicious tomato I'm just I'm too
excited to eat to even talk because I
want to eat I would also get my little
toasty ready it just took a couple of
minutes oh my goodness so smooth so
creamy oh let me give you I'm doing it
mm-hmm so so I think we just went time
with me guys I don't know what to lower
in the kitchen to get the written recipe
I'm going just playing time with me I'm
gonna keep Duncan and Eden I'll see you
next time bye-bye
you